Good evening. My name is Brian Hagerty.
I'm the chair of the El Paso Community
College Board of uh trustees and like to
welcome everyone to our monthly meeting.
Anyone following along on the internet,
you can go to youtube.com
usergocc
uh bell call call the order please.
>> Yes, sir.
>> Mr. Uxer
>> here.
>> Mrs. Robas
>> Miss Nah is not here. Dr. Graham
>> here.
>> Mrs. Moy
>> Mr. Mendes here.
>> Mr. Hagerty
>> here. We all see you for the pledge of
allegiance.
To the flag
of
the stands, one nation,
indivisible, liberty andice for all.
>> Okay.
And I'd like to welcome everyone to our
monthly meeting.
Bel, can we start off with
>> 1.4? 4 approval of minutes. There is
none. Item 1.5 welcome to guests and
staff members. Item 1.6 open forum. We
do have one judge. Roberto Gara will
address the board regarding the Purple
Heart chapter appreciation of EPCC.
>> Good afternoon. Afternoon.
>> My name is Commander Roberto Garza of
the Military Order of Purple Heart,
Lonear Chapter 393. It's truly a
privilege to be here today. I want to
express my deepest gratitude to El Paso
Community College and specifically the
Trans Mountain campus, Carl Dwire, the
Veterans Resource Center, and the
Student Veterans of America chapter.
Your generosity in allowing us to use
the Trans Mountain campus auditorium for
our National Purple Heart Day ceremony
is deeply appreciated.
That event was about honoring our Purple
Heart recipients, those brave men and
women who have made immense sacrifices
for our freedom. Providing this space
allowed us to give them the recognition
they so rightfully deserve. It's a
testament to EPCC's commitment to our
veteran community and a powerful
demonstration of your support. Your
support goes beyond just the physical
space. It shows a genuine partnership.
This ceremony is a vital tradition and
your collaboration made it possible for
us to come together and reflect on the
true meaning of service and sacrifice.
So from all of us, thank you for your
commitment to honoring our heroes. Thank
you for your commitment to El Paso and
the Veterans Capital of the USA. Your
actions speak volumes and truly make a
difference. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you, sir.
Section 1.7 Presentations by
individuals, groups, and organizations.
Item 1.7.1,
Mr. Rene D Pñena, CPA, principal
shareholder of Pñena Bjones McDaniel and
co will present audit results regarding
the student success endowment
scholarship.
>> Good afternoon everyone. Thank you for
allowing me to present this. um where
with painting of Rionis McDaniel as he
said and we were charged to do what's
called an agreed upon procedure uh the
board a couple years ago ordered that um
a student endowment success fund uh be
created and then we ordered to look at
the attributes that were challenged to
the management and see if they were done
and so what I have in front of you and
don't worry I'm not going to go through
every word on every page, but I'd like
to just give a quick synopsis of each of
the directives. The board said to do
this, did they do it? The board just
said to do that, did they do that? So,
I'll quickly run through some of these,
but I will pay attention to one specific
item of specific interest. So, first of
all, the student success endowment fund.
On April 2023, the board directed the
college to create a student success
endowment fund. The fund was created on
May uh 28,25.
The board of trustees received an
amendment to that establishment and the
amendment is uh required
that the 90% of the original interest
that was originally stated shall be used
for scholarship to say shall be
allocated to scholarships. So basically
instead of ordering every year you have
to do this every year we're going to
allocate the interest to it. And then
secondly the amendment modified the
original language to be um to be
directed at the discretion of the
executive committee instead of bringing
it to the full board. So relieving the
full board of that requirement and both
of those were done um as required. So
moving on to the next one, the
establishment of the endowment. Uh the
objective was to determine if the
college did establish an endowment. And
the final observation was yes, the
student success endowment fund was
created on August 30th of 2023. And that
date does become important a little bit
later. Um the next one were deposits of
funds. We're giving you $30 million. The
objective was to verify that $30 million
was deposited into the student success
endowment fund. And what we did
determine or identify is that the
initial deposit into the endowment fund
was made on August 28th of 2024 for 33
million 37317.
the original $30 million
uh plus acred interest from the date
that the funds were received of 3
million37317.
So the entire amount from the date of
inception to the date that the fund was
established was transferred into the
endowment fund. The next one was the
investment of the funds. The objective
was to verify that they were vest
invested based on the directive of the
board of dire of directors and on the
observation on the next page was that on
August 28th the funds were transferred
to local government pool. This was back
on 28 of of 24 to the text pool and the
remainder of the account as of August 24
was there uh before the transfer the
funds were held in the text pool account
with the college funds. So they were
co-mingled but they were tracked
separately. So even though the funds
weren't transferable into the fund um
originally they were tracked separately.
So yes, the investment funds are uh
followed with the board directives. Uh
was an executive committee established
and as required by the trustees and the
answer is yes. On February 29, 2024, the
board of trustees appointed the
executive committee of the student
success endowment fund. keeping on going
a scholarship selection committee and on
top of the executive committee that the
president was directed to appoint a
committee that directly reports to the
executive committee. And again on the
next page the observation that was that
during the first executive committee
meeting on 2024
uh the scholarship select committee was
established on April 29th 2024. The team
developed the eligibility scholarship
criteria. The scholarship committee then
first met with the executive committee
on May of 2024 to discuss the
eligibility and the scholarship
selection committee was present with the
executive committees on the upcoming
meetings. So the answer is yes that
objective was achieved. uh then uh
presentation by the executive committee
to the board of directors again uh to
determine that at the first meeting of
the board of directors uh that the and
at the annual meetings a report would be
presented basically part of what I'm
doing now the executive committee first
did present to the board of trustees um
on September 24 of 20 September 24th of
u so the presentation was They again
object to completed a presentation by
the executive committee to the boards to
the college president to determine that
the executive committee was providing a
report to the president and the board of
trustees at least annually and again the
observation was that the first
presentation by the executive committee
to the board of trustees was done on
September of 2024 objective achieved. Um
then the corpus fund the objective was
to verify that the corpus fund was not
spent um the objective to verify the
corpus funds were not spent during the
fiscal year of 2024. The observation was
that and this is the corpus. The
observation is that the $30 million of
the corpus
initial donation was made on 2021. The
board resolution stated that the student
success fund should transfer the funds
uh and they were transferred on August
of 2024 for the 33 million37 that I
mentioned earlier. The fund included
interest earned and they were tracked
separately in the accounting records
since the donation was received. The 33
million includes interest earned since
the date the donation was made. As of
August 2024, the text pool account had
the full 33,056.
So yes, the 33 million corpus was
retained and the extra $3 million is
also in there. Then the next one, this
is where if I can spend a little bit of
time because we'll need a I think
there'll be a presentation for
suggestion from the board. an allocation
of scholarship and determination of the
funds available. The objective was to
verify that 90% of the interest acred
during the fiscal year ending August 24
from the student success endowment fund
was allocated to the scholarships to
students of the El Paso community
college.
The issue is that this is saying that
90% of the interest earned from the
student success endowment fund. Well,
the success endowment fund was created a
few couple years after the initial
deposit. So if you jump down to the
observation, the first scholarship
awarded from the student success fund is
done in the subsequent year October of
2024. So, no scholarships were awarded
during this fiscal year. But if you'll
jump down, the resolution states that
90% of any interest accured
every fiscal year from the student
success endowment fund should be
allocated to the scholarship. of the
3,184
that's the interest earned from the date
the funds were received and the to the
date that the deposit was made of the
3,100
1,79
actually represents interest earned from
the date of inception
to the date that the fund was actually
created.
The remaining 1,475
represents interest earned prior to the
date of the creation of the student
success fund. So what we're doing is
splitting hairs here that the the funds
were deposited. It earned $3 million,
but well not but 1.4 million of that $3
million was earned prior to the
establishment of the fund. And because
the resolution says earnings from the
fund should be allocated to the um to
the scholarship, a question arises what
happens to the 1 million400
that was earned prior to the
establishment of fund picking words here
and splitting airs. So I think to make
everything so that the board or
management knows what to do with those
1.4 Four. The question arises, should
this pre-establishment
of fund earnings be put into the corpus
of the $3 million or can it, and I
believe that's probably what the board
wanted, or can it go into the
scholarship available interest for
scholarships?
And that's going to be question that'll
be brought up to you a little bit later.
So hopefully I explained that well.
Okay. Um and then the very same thing on
the allocation of the emergency fund
that 9% to verify that 9% of the
interest for the from the start student
scholarship fund um is put aside for
emergencies. No emergency funds were uh
distributed at that time. And again we
need to know what to do with the 1,49%
of that. And then finally on the last
one the allocation of reinvestment to
the uh corpus and that was to verify
that 1% of the interest accured um would
be kept and added to the corpus and
again the oppos observation is that yes
uh the first presentation of the board
was uh made on September 24 and the
funds were um deposited.
Then uh the corporate funds to verify
the corporate funds were not spent
during the year. No, the 30 million uh
is intact including the 1%. and then
allocation and determination of funds
available finally to verify that 90% of
the interest accured during the year
ended August 24 from the student
endowment fund was allocated to the
scholarship um to scholarships for this
programs and again down at the end u
we're stating that the first
scholarships awarded were in the
subsequent year which is October of 2024
and Again, the 90% and the uh 9% and the
1%
uh are in the fund. The resolution needs
to determine clearly what happens, what
we should be doing with the funds that
were originally um earned. And finally,
approval of contracts to verify that the
executive committee had prior approval
from the board of trustees for uh
contracts. And the observation is that
the executive committee did not enter
into any contracts as of August 31st,
2024.
So hopefully I didn't read through that
too fast, but I didn't want to take too
much of your time. So bottom line is all
the objectives were met. Uh the only
question is clarification on the
interest earned prior to the
establishment of the scholarship fund.
And that's my story. Any questions,
ladies and gentlemen?
>> Yes, sir.
>> Yeah, I have one. So, we're talking
about 3.1 mil in interest allocated 1.4
4 prior to establishment of the legal
authority and 1.7
uh now controlled and so I'm trying to
get a a concept for a couple of
questions first of all Dr. Sado or are
you the 1.7 million okay is allocated to
scholarships in that particular fiscal
year were all of those funds allocated
>> no sir
>> okay so there was okay so that leads a
question when they say they shall be
allocated what happened what do we do we
where does that if does it go back into
the the uh
>> we will maintain it in a scholarship
fund for students
>> so we maintained a scholarship fund uh
independent uh it doesn't go back to the
original
>> doesn't go back into the corpus.
Correct.
>> So if we now then my suggestion is that
if we did not use all that money for the
scholarship and we have 1.4 four million
that we need to melt, we need to handle.
It's a one-time thing and we're going to
be and my position is okay that a 1%
return of uh interest back to the basic
deal is probably insufficient compared
to a two to five, two to three, two to
four, whatever your particular deal is,
is that this is a one-time shot. We have
the we have the procedure, we have the
policy to move it forward from here on
after that. will allocate the funds of
that particular year to scholarships and
we didn't do we didn't allocate all the
funds to the scholarships so there's
money left over. So if we do the keep
1.4 we're going to have a lot more left
over. Let's so let's let's tuck the 1.4
back into the original and uh and just
have the scholarship fund benefit from
that one a one-time advantage.
>> I I think that's a board decision, Mr.
Xer. Um I certainly understand and
respect the the proposition. Um, a
couple of things. So, we received the
resources in 2021 and it began to earn
interest. Thanks to our staff who put it
away wisely. It began to earn interest.
The board then contemplated how to
utilize these resources with legal
counsel's assistance. We were able to
come up to resolution of how to utilize
the the resources in 2024.
So the initial amount of interest was
much larger than we would have
anticipated providing in any given year
of scholarships. So I'm by no means am I
opposed. It's really a board decision on
what to do with the 1.475
um that is um additional revenue that
was collected um before that period of
time where the board established the
student success endowment. So, I would
caution the board not to say that we
will use all of the resources because
there may be years where we're not able
to award enough scholarships or the
students don't meet the requirements
that have been established based on the
on the scholarships and that we could
keep those resources because remember
it's a fall and spring as well as the
following fall and spring that the board
has committed to for those students. So
you're everything that you said is
logical and and that would be a a board
decision.
>> Respectfully, I disagree with that, sir.
I think that that should be an
administrative decision because
as a board member, I don't want to have
that control that, you know, that we tie
the hands of the people that are
actually seeing the need up front of the
students. So I would just I think that
we already articulated the the plan
clearly rented by legal several times
and discussed it and agreed upon it and
that is a piece that needs to be
discussed by the administrative team or
the executive team and and made a
decision on that.
Well, if if I may again the question is
because it stated that the interest
earned from the fund
>> the so the 14 million.
The question is whether that should be
put into the corpus and we should have
$31.4 4 million that we never spent. Or
can we
can we say that the original $30 million
is the corpus and every penny earned
since that point goes into the
scholarship fund
>> for scholarships?
>> I I have a question. I think it's a 30
million, but don't we then take each one
year the scholarship fund increases by
1%?
>> Correct. And so in other words, so it's
not 30 million this it's 30.1
fund of that. And all I'm saying is is
that it's a one-time deal. We haven't
used it there. The policies. Yeah. And
and so we have a question. Do we want to
say we want to have a bigger uh petty
cash? I mean I know that 3 million 2
million but but have we used for lack of
a better term have a a petty cashache
there. Okay. or if we put it back in the
scholarship fund and that in itself
becomes a basis for more interest to be
earned in the future.
Right? And again, since it was all
established by the board, this is a
clarification that we're asking the
board
and Dr. Sarata Hagerty, if you want to,
we could jump into section 1.9.7 if the
board wants to have that discussion now.
Uh,
I mean, as long as my my personal
opinion is the one the money that was
made before we set up the fund is put it
back in the fund and give it out in
scholarships because I I think what the
board's idea was we'd always have 30
million
>> as our as a corpus
>> is our corpus. So that so if we made
interest before we got around because we
had a big discussion on how we were
going to do with this money
>> for several days
>> and we finally decided so just put that
other money that was earned prior to put
it in the fund and give it out in
scholarship. Yeah, I exactly that's why
I think the original intent was 30
million is going to be the corpus.
Anything it earns goes into the
scholarship, but we need the
clarification.
>> Well, scholarships plus the 1%.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
>> So, we the administration has broken
down the data for the board. Um, and the
one point it's 1,475,260.
If we went with the original intent of
the board, then an additional 1,327,734
would go into the scholarship fund,
which we would allocate as um as quickly
as we can as long as students meet the
requirements, etc. 132,773
additional dollars would go into the
emergency fund and then an additional
14,753
would go back into the fund. um to try
and maintain its its buying power, so to
speak.
But again, this is a board decision. I
um I I want to make sure that um that
the board's
direction doesn't violate what we've
actually established. And I'd ask legal
counsel.
>> I have a question out over there. If we
had one and we earned 1.7 million, okay,
that was available to be awarded to
scholarships and we didn't award it,
what's to say that we're going to be
needing above and beyond that, we're
going to plan for future catastrophe.
Uh, it seems to me that the bigger the
pad we have, the insurance and gives us
there. I realize the idea that we want
to do it, but we didn't give it all out
before. Correct.
>> We didn't give it out now. So why do we
think we want to save it so we can give
it out some other time?
>> I think that's fair. I my my only
caution is that it not violate what the
board actually established.
>> I think the question here is is do we
want to keep it at 30 million or do we
want to add that to and make it 31 like
you said? That's our only decision. My
decision is our number one issue was to
make sure we always had the 30 million.
So I said we do what Dr. Sarat is saying
is we put the 1
four
back into the scholarship fun and if we
don't give it out then it rolls over to
the next year.
As long as we keep the balance at 30
million bucks
>> 30 million plus 1%
>> or whatever 30 million plus that's out
of the 10% we said we're taking out.
So that's my I'm going to make a motion
that we do that
>> we do what Dr. Sat is suggesting with
those figures.
>> Item 1.9.7
discussion and take possible action to
consider whether interest earned between
May 2021 to August 31, 2023 should be
added to the corpus or made available
for student scholarships.
>> My motion is to give it to student
scholarships.
>> Second.
>> You have any other discussion? Other
questions? No.
>> Mr. Uxer?
>> No.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Hi.
>> Miss Naha.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Thank you, sir.
>> Thank you. Appreciate.
>> Good job.
>> Appreciate it. Good job. Thank you.
>> We're back under section 1.7. Item
1.7.2.
Optional presentations will be made by
the presidents of the classified staff
association, the professional staff
association, the faculty association,
and the student government association.
>> Good evening, Chair Hagerty, members of
the board, President Sarata, staff, and
guests. I'm Laura Gaither, president of
the classified staff association. As we
begin the new fiscal year, I'd like to
take a moment to rec recognize the
officers of our classified staff
council. While some officers are unable
to join us, others are some are
fulfilling their prior commitments. Each
one deserves our appreciation for the
work they do behind the scenes and on
the front lines. Their contributions
continue to make a meaningful impact
across our district. Cynthia Aras, vice
president at Mission Del Paso. Laura
Estrada, which she is here, our
treasurer. Laura Gonzalez, our rights
and responsibilities
rights and responsibilities officer at
Verde. Nancy Gutierrez, our public
relations officer. She's at Rio Grand
and she's our newest member.
Kimberly Mcroom, rights and
responsibility
rights and responsibilities officer at
Trans Mountain. Cecilia Mononttoya, our
secretary at Bay and she's here as well.
Leticia Mononttoya, rights and
responsibilities officer at Bay.
Evangelina Ranel, she's vice president
at Northwest. Norma Salas, vice
president at Verde.
Myself, Laura Gaither, a CSA president.
and our liaison Fernando Mata. Each of
these individuals bring unique strengths
and a shared commitment to supporting
our classified staff. Whether through
advocacy, outreach, or operational
support, their contributions are deeply
valued. Our contributions this past
fiscal year to our constituents and
community are as follows. Throughout the
year, our officers played a vital role
at the craft fairs, offering guidance
and support to our vendors throughout
the events. Proceeds from these fairs
directly benefit our constituents,
providing essential assistance during
times of need and reinforcement,
reinforcing our commitment to them. Our
officers offered compassionate guidance
and support to individuals facing
hardship due to eligible life events.
Through our emergency relief fund, we
were able to assist one individual
providing not just financial aid, but a
sense of stability and care during a
difficult time. In November, with
district-wide donations totaling
$790.65,
we donated 60 turkeys to three
organizations serving families in need,
helping ensure that more households
could enjoy warm, nourishing holiday
meal. The three organizations were
Winchester House Transitional Living
Center, Elen Pastor, and El Paso State
Supported Living Center. In January, we
contributed a clothing donation valued
at $279.51
to the El Paso State Supporting Living
Center. This donation helped provide
essential items to individuals arriving
in vulnerable circumstances, reinforcing
our commitment to dignity care and
community partnership. In February, we
donated gift items in the amount of $226
to the anno annual staff retreat. In
July, we hosted a community event at Wet
N Wild Waterorld, purchasing a 100
tickets at 1999
each to ensure that everyone in the
district could participate. Even though
we sold out two weeks before the event,
Winn and Wild graciously honored the
discounted rate of 1999 plus tax for any
additional tickets sold beyond the
initial 100, allowing even more families
to join in the fund. As we begin a new
fiscal year, we'd like to take a moment
to remind our constituents of the
emergency relief fund available to
support employees during times of urgent
need. This fund is designed to assist in
the event of a catastrophic natural
disaster, emergency travel expenses for
a critical ill employee or their
immediate family, financial hardship
resulting from a life-threatening
medical emergency affecting the employee
or their immediate family. We encourage
anyone facing such circumstances to
reach out to us and explore the support
available. I we're wishing everybody a
successful, fulfilling and resilient
year ahead. Thank you for your time.
>> Thank you.
Good evening, Dr. Sarata and board of
tris. My name is Isakagias Palma and I
currently serve as the EPCC student
government association president. I've
been part of EPCC since 2023 as an
international student pursuing a degree
in mechanical engineering and I look
forward to graduating by the end of this
year and then transferring to UTEP. My
journey with SGA began just over a year
ago as secretary. I later later served
as vice president and now as president.
Since my first year at NSGA, we have
worked together on many studentled
initiatives, including bringing back the
annual fall fest in fall 2024, the
period baskets project where we provide
our students with period supplies in the
restrooms at all campuses, hosting the
2024 TUCSA region one conference at the
VA campus where I was selected as a
student of the year for region one,
representing EPCC during community
college day at the state capital at the
TCS and the TCSGA state convention where
we awarded third place for our
submission of scrapbook which highlights
the hard work of SGA and our student
clubs.
Our SGA retreat for our newly inducted
members and mostly most recently
installation of microwaves across all
campuses. Of course, none of this would
have been accomplished without the
dedication and teamwork of my fellow SGA
members. Our current SGA board read as
follows. President Isak Das, Vice
President Miss Gonzalez, Parliamentarian
Jani Vasquez, Treasurer Victor Montes,
Secretary Alettu, Historian Sophia Ag
campus representative Naomi Rodriguez,
Rio Grande campus representative Cecilia
Garcia, Mission Del Paso campus
representative Brandon Rivera, Bay
Senator Andrea Dominguez, Bera Senator
Crystal Martinez, and Bay Senator Kayla
Roles. We are also fortunate to have the
guidance and support of our adviserss,
our co-advisor Enria Costa Moreno and
our advisor Nadia Rivas. Additionally, I
want to acknowledge the work of our
student leadership team members Vivana
Sanchez and Mariano Leas our and our
entire campus life team. Without the
contribution of each of these
individuals, SGA would not be the same.
As we begin a new academic year, our
team has set clear goals to improve the
student experience and strengthen our
representation of the student body.
These goals include expanding SGA
representation to all campuses,
prioritizing the student voice through
regular service and feedback, increasing
collaboration with EPCC administration
by engaging with additional committees
and departments and to stay actively
involved in college decisions
by regularly attending Bros meetings.
Also, I would like to highlight the
positive impact of new initiatives from
EPCC departments on our students by
sharing some examples.
The first is EPCC cares, a mental health
focused initiative led by our
counselors. Initiatives like this are
essential as they provide students with
resources that improve their overall
college experience.
I was among the first students enrolled
in EPCC cares when it launched and I can
confidently say that it was a gamecher
for me when I used it to my college
life.
The second was an invitation from Dr.
Iet Werta, director of institutional
effectiveness to join the upcoming
campus improvement meeting. This is a
perfect example of valuating student
perspectives in important discussions.
This will be an excellent opportunity
for collaboration and progress.
Furthermore, over the past year, we've
been collaborating with the progress
pillar team where we reach out to
students to gather their feedback on how
EPCC can improve an as an institution.
One of out outcomes of this effort was
participation in a student panel last
week where
we advise instructors on how to enhance
their instru their communication with
students. Finally, we're partnering with
the new student orientation department
for tomorrow's steel batch where we will
be connecting with current and new
students to build a sense of belonging.
Now, I would like to take this moment to
encourage all of EPCC departments to
reach out to SGA for future
partnerships. Together, we can ensure
that the student voice is heard and that
our initiatives have the greatest
possible impact. Looking ahead, we're
excited for a school year that will be
both productive and enjoyable. We look
forward to keep working to make EPCC the
best place to start and to finish. Thank
you so much for your for welcoming us
here and go to Hanos. Thank you.
>> Wow. Cool.
uh trustees, Mr. President, vice
presidents, deans, all other guests,
uh we are working diligently to try to
implement the statemandated
SB37.
The faculty association executive
committee met with President Sarata, BP
Smith, uh earlier this month, and we
believe we got most things worked out.
There's still a couple of issues that
are still outstanding, but uh on behalf
of the faculty, like to thank you all
for passing the resolution
reestablishing
a Senate under the mandate. So, thank
you again and we'll keep you updated on
matters. Thanks. Bye.
[Applause]
>> Item 1.7.3, Dr. William Sarata, college
president, will recognize individuals
who have retired from El Paso Community
College.
Chair Hagerty, members of the board,
always a bittersweet moment when we say
goodbye or so we'll see you soon to
individuals who've made an impact on the
institution. I'm going to begin today
with Mr. Rudy Ednandez who's retiring
after 17 years of dedicated service to
El Paso Community College. Mr. Dr.
Ednandez has made an impact as a
full-time lecturer and tenur faculty
member in psychology teaching courses
such as psychology, personality,
abnormal psychology, human growth and
development, and social psychology. He
has also contributed extensively to our
criminal justice program, teaching
courses in criminal law, police
practices, corrections, and court
systems. In addition to his teaching,
Mr. Nandis has shown leadership across
various roles. He served as campus
coordinator for the Northwest campus in
the areas of psychology, criminal
justice, education, philosophy, and
government. He also took on the role
role of district-wide coordinator for
the psychology discipline, helping to
shape the academic experience for
countless students. Mr. Nandis'
leadership extends beyond the classroom.
He served as vice president of the
faculty association for both part-time
and full-time faculty and as president
of the faculty senate association. His
committee work includes chairing the
faculty professional development
committee, the district-wide improvement
committee and the campus improvement
committee. He also compete uh
contributed to EPCC's broader
initiatives such as the teachership
academy steering committee where he
served as presenter and the campus
architectural committee as part of our
master plan. Outside of academics, Mr.
Nandis has been an active volunteer
sharing his time as a karate instructor.
This is new. I didn't realize that. Uh
for children through the Northwest
campus summer program and supporting
local public schools by judging speech
contests. His commitment to service
extends into the community. He currently
serves as vice chair of the Immunized El
Paso board of directors. His
professional memberships include the
American Psychological Association and
the Society for Teaching of Psychology.
Mr. Nandez, your years of service have
made a difference at El Paso Community
College. On behalf of the college
district, we thank you for your
dedication to our students, our faculty,
and our community. And if you'll join
me, please
[Applause]
Congratulations.
We have one more retiree to recognize
today. Uh, Ignasio Kintero Jr. After 38
years of service, Professor Ignasio
Kintterero has decided to retire from
EPCC. Before coming to EPCC, Mr.
Kintterero began his career with the
United States Army and served two years
in Vietnam before returning to El Paso.
In 1972, he graduated from the data
processing school in El Paso with a
computer analyst degree. 1974 he moved
to California to pursue a more advanced
degree in the computer field from the
electronic computer processing
institute. In 1980, Mr. Condetto
returned to El Paso where he completed
his master's degree from the University
of Phoenix while working as a computer
analyst. After several years as a
computer programmer in 1987, he was
offered a part-time teaching job at
EPCC. In 1989, he was offered a
full-time position under the information
technology systems discipline and earned
full professor rank in 1999.
Teaching has been by far the most
rewarding career in his life. Mr. Kintto
shares that sharing his knowledge with
generations of students pushed pushed
the limits and set the bar higher than
imagined. Students still remember him
after many years and thank him for
setting high goals for them which
inspired them to achieve more than they
expected. Mr. Canto has dedicated many
years of service to the college as a
faculty member who helped lay the
groundwork work for the robust IT
degrees that EPCC offers our student
body. His peers, students, and
colleagues thank him. On behalf of the
institution, we wish Professor
Kintterero all the best in this new
chapter of his life. Mr. KTO, can you
join me, please?
[Applause]
Section 1.8 communications. Item 1.8.1
8.1 discussion and review regarding
data, statistics, policies, and general
information related to El Paso Community
College by the board of trustees. Item
1.8.1.1
Mr. Fernando Flores, vice president of
fi of finance and administration, chief
chief financial officer will provide a
presentation on the fiscal year 2025
2026 budget.
Good afternoon, Chair Hagerty, Vice
Chair Nahara, Secretary to the Board
Graham, and members of the board, and
Dr. Sarata. Um, this afternoon, I will
be preparing a presenting a short
presentation on the fiscal year 2526
operating budget, and it will be short
compared to the others, promise. Um, I
would like to start by saying that the
presentation this evening is in direct
support of item 4.8. 8 which you will
have later in your agendas. Uh the
approval of the operating budget.
So budget workshops to the board of
trustees have been presented on June the
25th and on August the 6th of this year.
And during the budget workshops held on
June the 25th and August the 6th, the
board of trustees were provided with
updates of the budget development
process, the current year budget, and
the state funding from the 89th
legislature.
State appropriations will be based on
House Bill 8 funding model approved
during the 88th legislature as a
community college finance bill. In this
legislature, performance measures and
payment methods were refined.
The preliminary fisc year 2526 operating
budget was also presented to include
revenue projections, additional funding
needs and different funding strategies
to fund the operating budget.
So we will also cover the 2526 revenue
projections in the next few slides.
And we're going to talk about the 2526
baseline budget which essentially is the
expenditure side of the operating budget
based upon executive level submissions
of budgets in the March uh 2025 time
frame. Then we will present the 2526
proposed budget for your approval this
evening.
So this is a look at the revenue
projections for 2526
and this amount at the very bottom of
the middle column 173,931,632
will be the amount presented for the
operating budget because we cannot
exceed revenue projections. So state
appropriations came in on the revenue
projections with a positive variance of
$5.6 6 million or 12.77%
higher than the adopted budget for 2425.
Tuition and fees are estimated at 38.9
million, a small decrease of 214,000.
At the last presentation on August the
6th, I said that we would keep an eye on
fall enrollment and adjust the figures
if necessary. Um I would tell you that
as of yesterday our enrollment was 2%
higher. Um during the time of the August
6 presentation we were down I think 24
students were up like 456 I think
yesterday. So it has slowly been
trending in the right direction and
there is still uh late registration
occurring this week.
So property taxes now are estimated 75.2
2 million and as the title on this slide
says based upon certified property
valuations that we got from the CAD on
July the 25th of this year that is the
projection for property tax revenue for
next year as a property it has a
positive variance of 2.1 million around
3% higher than the adopted budget
revenue
for the prior year. So other income is
estimated at 6.2 million. As a reminder,
we budget interest income very
conservatively because it is not a good
revenue source uh because it is
sometimes unpredictable
based upon economic conditions and
changes that occur quickly in the news
and other places. So uh following uh
next is the self-supporting revenues
projected at $3 million.
The total for that column, as I said
earlier, is 173,931,632.
A positive variance of 7.4 million over
the prior year adopted budget. Overall,
about a 4.5%
increase.
Next, we see these revenues. The same
amount, 173.9 million, represented as a
percentage of the total revenues. And
here property tax tax tax revenue is
still the highest at 43.27%
of the total revenues. State
appropriations coming in second at
28.62%
followed by tuition and fees 22.38%
other income 3.6%
self-supporting and o overhead recovery
smaller amounts making up the total
revenue sources.
Next we have the baseline budgets which
uh determine the operating expenditure
budget. Now the baseline budget is based
upon submissions by the various
executive levels which occurred back in
March of this year and this is all the
the baseline budgets that were submitted
without considering any extra request or
additional funding requests. So when we
look at the baseline budget, uh
instruction is the highest at 33.11%
or 54.7 million followed by
institutional support 49 million 49.7
million or 30% of the baseline budget
followed by academic support 20.3
million or 12.28%
of the budget. Interestingly, when you
combine instruction and academic
support, you get about 45% of the budget
in direct support of students.
So, I would make that clarification for
you. Uh operation and maintenance of
physical plant $13.2 million or 8%
followed by student services which also
goes to helping students uh $12.7
million or 7.68% 68% transfers 7.5
uh million dollar or 4.6% followed by
public service 3.8 million
self-supporting programs are budgeted at
3 million and research at $214,000.
So this is the baseline budget that is
going to support the uh recommended
operating budget which you will see in
the next few slides.
This next slide combines both the uh
baseline budget and then the additional
funding needs. So we just saw on on the
previous
slide the baseline budget of 165.4
million. Now you see it again here um on
this slide and all the functional areas
that comprise that amount and then
followed by additional funding requests.
We had critical needs that were
presented to the board previously, $1.7
million.
And then an item to adjust our salary
tables by 6%.
the entry tables,
the entry levels in the tables, uh,
valued at 672,000,
and then the 3% salary increase that was
approved at the August 6th board
meeting,
followed by additional requests from the
executive levels of $1.9 million
and uh, bianium reserve. This will go to
mitigate any any revenue estimates that
we may not have uh estimated properly.
Uh for example, if the state
appropriation comes in lower than what
we projected, this would be where we
might balance that difference if it was
lower. So all told, this is the budget
uh proposed budget for fiscal year 2526.
Um we believe that all the revenue
estimates are conservative and cons have
considered certain risks that we are
subject to like state appropriations
having a bianium reserve and we believe
that this is a sustainable budget going
forward.
Are there any questions?
It has been a long process starting in
February. So, I'd like to thank the
budget office led by Miss Lauret Tees,
Lilana Arlo, and Bronn Cahimenez. Also,
uh associate vice president Zuniga,
which is in the audience. Um uh and also
in my office, in particular, uh my
staff, Juanita Martinez, Sylvia Deucio,
and Jose Shaughnessy. And in particular,
Dr. Sarata who has been involved with
the whole process meeting strategizing
and providing input evaluating the
additional request and my cabinet
colleagues for uh bearing with all our
questions as budget development
progressed and most of all with the
board of trustees for entertaining three
budget presentations and listening to
our request. We are very appreciative of
all of you.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
Section 1.9, Board of Trustees Business.
Items 1.9.1
through 1.9.6 and 1.9.10 will be
discussed in executive session. Item
1.9.8,
discussion and action to approve a 6%
salary adjustment to the salary tables
and increase pay to $10 for employees
earning less than that amount.
>> Move to approve. Second.
>> I would only I'd only um let the board
know that it is $10 per hour. Just a
clarification.
>> Any other discussion?
Call a question.
>> Mr. Exter.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> I.
>> Miss Nahara.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> I.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
Item 1.9
discussion and take possible action
regarding the upcoming board of trustees
meeting dates for September, October and
November 2025.
>> Chair Hagerty and members of the board
um the board and I will be traveling in
October and therefore the meeting is
scheduled during a time uh that there is
a conflict. Um as well as so I'd remind
the board our meeting for September is
on the the 24th of September. that
stands. Um we're recommending to the
board that the October meeting be held
on Thursday, October 30th. Um we will be
traveling plus I have um the Texas
Association of Community Colleges which
is scheduled on Wednesday the 29th. And
then on in November we have um based on
the calendar um the board meeting would
be the Wednesday before Thanksgiving.
Um, we would like the board to enjoy
Thanksgiving with your families and so
we are recommending Tuesday, December
the 2nd. Um, we would not have a meeting
in November. We would have the meeting
in early December. Those are our
recommendations to the board.
>> Anybody have a problem with those dates?
Any motion?
>> Yes, you do.
>> Motion to approve the recommended dates.
Second.
>> Any discussion? Call the question.
>> Mr. Xer.
>> I.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Miss Naha.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Section 1.10 board reports. Item 1.10.1
treasures report. Item 1.10.1.1
July 31 2025 financial statements. No
action is required. Item 1.10.2 2
President's Report. Item 1.10.2.1.
Dr. William Sarata, college president,
will update the board of trustees and
audience on recent events that have
transpired at El Paso Community College.
>> Good evening, Chair Hagerty and members
of the board. I'd like to begin my
report by thanking the EPCC cosmetology
and nail tech students who participated
in the annual Power of Pink event
offering complimentary beauty services
to local cancer survivors. Students
provided hair styling, makeup, and
manicures, followed by a professional
photo shoot and gift giveaways. This
meaningful event highlights the students
talent and community spirit. To
highlight the first week of classes,
EPCC Marketing partnered with KVIA
Channel 7, which featured the Rio Grande
campus as part of its morning show.
During a live broadcast, Tahhano, Jack
and Cheer showed their support, their
EPCC spirit and excitement for the start
of a new semester. The college was able
to share information on ongoing
registration, mini masters, and our many
health occupations and other programs.
Many thanks to Dr. Amaya, Dr. Hajar, Mr.
Aub, Dr. Thomas Sto, Bo Baggley, as well
as Dr. Carrie Mo. uh they were on the
Rio Grand campus at 4:45 a.m. So many
thanks for them for all the work on that
effort. Um appreciate all the good work.
On July 25th, EPCC's NASA Globe Partner
Program teamed up with Lanube Steam
Discover Center and EPCC's physics for
the for the Lego summer camp. Students
explored satellite data with Legos,
learned buoancy and flotation, buoyancy
and flotation through a build a boat
race and engaged in interactive physics
demonstrations. The Globe office at the
Trans Mountain campus will continue STEM
outreach throughout the year. This fall,
the Mission Del Paso campus will launch
its third academic year of the 8-week
hybrid project uh an initiative support
student success and flexible learning.
The program has played a key role in s
sustaining the campus's upward
enrollment trend while maintaining a
strong strong average pass rate of 84%
among participants. Uh thank you to our
mission delaso deans and the faculty and
staff behind this great initiative
supporting student success. Earlier this
month, Big Brothers Big Sisters hosted a
celebration for eight participants who
completed 154 hours of training in a
pilot multifamily building maintenance
technician program. Workforce Solutions
Border Plex provided funding and the
program's creation represented a
collaboration among EPCC's Center for
Corporate and Workforce Training and
Advanced Technology Center. Workforce
Solutions Borderlex and the Housing
Authority of El Paso, which initially
requested the program. Students
completing the program earned an OSHA 10
certification and engaged in coursework
covering electrical troubleshooting,
HVAC, small appliance repair, plumbing,
and interior wall finishing. Special
thanks to Dr. Olga Valerio, dean of
industry partnerships and workforce
training, and Jose Caso Lopez, director
of the center for corporate and
workforce training, who led the
collaboration, are currently submitting
the program as a new occupational skills
award for the college. Well done.
Earlier this summer, a team from EPCC
participated in a convening and workshop
in Austin sponsored by the Greater Texas
Foundation, marking the successful
completion of the first year of the
Texas Emergency Aid Roadmap Program.
This is a three-year grant program to
help EPCC and a cohort of nine other
community colleges develop efficient,
sustainable emergency assistance
programs to ensure students receive the
support they need to stay in school and
graduate. As a result of this work, EPCC
has streamlined its criteria and
processes for distributing emergency
aid. Thank you to the EPCC Greater Texas
Foundation core team members
representing divisions collegewide
including Enriquea Costa Moreno, Carmen
Gomez, Dr. Dolores Gra in Lopez, Nadia
Rivas, Pearl Rentia, Theresa Reena
Fernandez, Shannon Vayz, Lillian Woon,
and Anna Zuniga with team lead Dr.
Carrie Mo. Since 2003, the Northwest
Campus Jenna Welsh and Laura Bush
Community Library has been participating
in a statewide initiative to promote
literacy, gathering on every on average
every year between 250 and 350 children
at the library to participate in over 35
different classes. The classes include
watercolor, crochet, coding, and story
time among others. For 2025, 280
children registered for the program and
participated in the citywide reading
program through the El Paso Public
Library. Moreover, EPCC student parents
received a scholarship for their
children through participation as part
of the EPCC familyfriendly campus
initiative. The Veterans Resource Center
is pleased to announce that the Texas
Veteran Commission takes great pleasure
in awarding the college with the gold
Veterans Education Excellence
Recognition Award or Vera. The Veteran
Education Excellence Recognition Award
is presented at gold, silver, and bronze
levels to highlight the depth and
breadth of services provided to veteran
students and their families. The Texas
state legis legislature established the
Vera
program to recognize public colleges and
universities for their excellence in
providing education and related services
to veterans and the military connected
community. El Paso Community College
applied for recognition and showcased
its commitment to ensuring the academic
success of these individuals.
Congratulations on this gold award
recognition to Dr. Paula Mitchell, our
AVP of instruction and student success,
and to Mr. Carl Dwire, our director of
EPCC's Veterans Resource Center. I'm
proud to share that the lieutenant that
Lieutenant Eddie Bberto Franco, who
serves our Trans Mountain and Northwest
campuses, has become the first officer
in El Paso County to earn the law
enforcement command officer
certification from the Texas Police
Chiefs Association. This is a highly
respected credential held by only a
select group of leaders across Texas.
Over 18 months, Lieutenant Franco
completed 250 hours of advanced
leadership training in 10 cities, and he
now brings that expertise back to EPCC.
His accomplishment reflects his
commitment to lifelong learning and
leadership, and it strengthens the
professionalism of our entire college
police department. Congratulations,
Lieutenant Franco, on this outstanding
achievement. Music professor Yasmin
Flores secured $25,000
in donated school supplies from the El
Paso Community Foundation. This 10-year
collaboration allows area elementary and
middle schools to visit EPCC's VIA the
campus and be equipped with the
necessary backpack, pens, and general
school supplies they need to start the
upcoming school year successfully. The
school store occurred on Saturday, July
26, and ISD students and their families
attended. Nearly 35 EPCC programs,
disciplines, and clubs were represented
at the school store event. Families and
p prospective students stopped by each
table to pick up some EPCC merchandise
and learn about various opportunities
available at this at the college.
Professor Flores expresses her gratitude
to the countless volunteers around the
EPCC district. Special thanks to the
Vive campus for making the 10th annual
school store a resounding success.
Special thanks to Professor Flores for
the great work serving as a school store
coordinator for the last two years.
Congratulations to Dr. Christian Cervin,
professor of computer science for
receiving two prestigious awards. In
July, he was named high-tech hi teec
educator of the year at the national
high-tech conference in Minneapolis.
Just weeks later, he received the King
Sunfu award from the North American
Fuzzy Information Processing Society at
their international conference in
Canada. These awards recognize his
leadership in technology education,
artificial intelligence, and computing.
Dr. Dr. Servine's work reflects EPCC's
commitment to innovation and preparing
students for success in high-tech
careers. Congratulations to Dr. Servin.
EPCC proudly celebrated its students at
the Urban Partnership Synergy Symposium
El Paso highlighting the USDA and
Texas&M
Conservation Careers Internship Program
funded by the USDA and NRCS. The program
engages underrepresented students
particularly in the Mission Valley in
agriculture, natural resources, and
human sciences. Since January 2025,
EPCC, UTEP, and NMSU students have
gained hands-on research and fieldwork
experience through paid internships,
culminating in project showcases at the
symposium. The event also featured EPCC
Dean Daniel Gera as a panelist on
community partnerships reflecting the
college's commitment to mentorship,
training, and building a diverse
workforce prepared to address future
environmental and agricultural
challenges. Jer Hagerty, that concludes
my report. I'm happy to respond to the
board with any questions that you may
have.
>> Anybody have any questions for Dr.
Thanks.
Item 1.11, consent docket. There is
none. Section two, administration. Item
2.1, CFCM TASBY local policies for
revision, adoption, and approval.
>> Move to approve.
>> Second.
>> Any discussion? Call a question.
>> Mr. Uxer. Hi.
>> Mrs. Robless. I
>> Miss Naha. Hi.
>> Dr. Graham. Hi,
>> Mrs. Moy. Hi,
>> Mr. Mendes. Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty. I
>> item 2.2 CAM TASBY local policy for
first reading review and comment only.
No action is required. Section three
personnel item 3.1 instit
institutionally externally funded
full-time staff appointments,
extensions, resignations, and
retirements. No action is required. Item
3.2 tenure track faculty appointments.
New tenur faculty and faculty
extensions.
>> Move to approve. Second.
>> Any discussion? All questions.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Miss Naha.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
Item 3.3, discussion and action on the
reappoint of continuing probationary
faculty and authorization for the
president to enter into written
employment contracts and contract agenda
for the 2025 2026 academic year with
tenur and probationary faculty members.
>> Move to approve
>> uh 3.3 and 3.4
>> second
>> item 3.4 Four, discussion and action on
the reappoint of continuing regular
administrative classified professional
staff and requesting authorization for
the president to enter into written
employment contracts effective September
1, 2025 with the listed employees.
>> Any discussion on 3.3?
Any on 3.4?
Call the question.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Miss Naha.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Section four, financial services. Item
4.1, discussion and action on the
approval of a contract award to USI
Southwest Inc. for commercial property,
automobile, general, law enforcement,
educators, legal, and umbrella
liability, excess crime, cyber risk,
vocational student accident, and crisis
management insurance in an amount not to
exceed 1,376,195.
Move to approve 4.1 and 4.2.
>> Second.
>> Item 4.2, discussion and action on the
approval to award contracts for
advertising services from various radio
stations for fiscal year 2025 2026 in an
amount not to exceed $350,000
annual aggregate.
>> Have any questions on 4.1?
>> Yep. Uh chair back. As long as we
including 42,
my intention was to ask for 4.3, 4.4,
four and 4.5. Can they now be included
into this?
>> No, because this is already a motion
made. We
>> already have a a first and a second. We
can we can discuss them as we go along.
Do you have any questions on those two,
Dr.
>> Um, no, I will include his general part
of the next deal.
>> Okay, call the questions.
>> Mr. Uxer,
>> hi.
>> Mrs. Robiss,
>> Miss Naha,
>> I
>> Dr. Graham,
>> Mrs. Moy,
>> hi.
>> Mr. Mendes,
>> Mr. Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Item 4.3, discussion and action on the
approval to award contracts for
advertising services from various
television stations for fiscal year 2025
2026 in an amount not to exceed $250,000
annual aggregate.
>> Move to approve 4.3, 4.4, and 4.5.
>> Second.
>> Item 4.4 Four, discussion and action on
the procurement of district-wide
advertising services with several
publication vendors for fiscal year 2025
2026 in an amount not to exceed 200,000
$200,000 annual aggregate. Item 4.5
discussion and action on the approval to
award a contract to Clear Channel
Outdoor for outdoor advertising for
fiscal year 2025 2026 in an amount not
to exceed $150,000
annual aggregate.
>> Any questions on 4.3? Uh I have a
question on 4.3.
Go ahead.
>> Actually in the whole thing if you look
at 4.2, three, four, and five all fall
under the larger category of media. Uh
if you total them, they come to just a
tad short of $1 million. Okay. So I have
a couple questions. First of all, these
are broken up by topics.
And I think if I remember correctly,
these these requested amounts are
similar or comparable to a pre uh a
request at this time last year about the
same amount. Is that correct?
>> That is correct.
>> Okay. Now, if we had a million dollars,
how much of that did we spend last year?
Did we spend that all of that money last
year?
uh we spend less than $500,000 on um
advertising, but this gives us the
flexibility based on research to adjust
where we're spending the money.
>> Okay. So, you're asking for $950,000
aggregate in all four. Would you
anticipate that you would need all 950
or if not, why?
>> No. Last year we only spent 460,000
>> and this year
>> um the same amount is in the budget
>> and so and the reason for that is
>> so this way we have flexibility when
we're looking at our return on
investment and we see the data on how
the advertising is producing, we can
adjust. For example, if we see we need
to spend a little bit more in television
or we need to spend a little bit more in
radio to reach a particular demographic,
it gives us the flexibility to make
those adjustments.
>> Okay. And last question
in looking at that, how do we determine
do do you have a survey or is it uh uh
general questions or it's observation?
what would lead you to make, you know,
like an on uh real time decision over
the year as to where to go, where to
emphasize your median.
>> That's a great question. We're always
monitoring um whether it's anecdotal or
whether through measurement, for
example, on our digital advertising,
we're able to measure click-through
rates. Um that would be one example.
Other times um we look at enrollment um
and determine where the dollars are
making an impact and adjust accordingly.
>> And Dr. Sat out of all this, if I'm not
mistaken, I think this is one of the few
times that we actually have one person
really is sort of working with a budget
of a million dollars. And I think I
think she's done that area has done an
exceptional job exceptional job in being
able to identify segregate qualify and
and follow up and respond in real time
as to what needs to be done and appears
to be
don't go to your head but appears to be
a good steward of the money.
>> Mr. Xer, I certainly appreciate that and
I certainly concur that Dr. Mo and her
team have done a tremendous job. Um we
saw spring enrollment up approximately
5%, summer enrollment was up 11%. Um we
were we are currently surprised that um
fall enrollment is relatively flat.
We're up a couple percent today and we
have uh we're continuing the enrollment
process and we'll continue it through
many meers. But I agree Dr. Dr. Mo and
her team have done a great job of
disagregating the data um and utilizing
the different modes of communication
with students. They have shifted over
time. We used to do a lot more
television uh and they have shifted over
time to do a lot more social media. Um
and I agree and concur with your um
congratulator congratulatory statements
towards you.
>> Any other questions?
Thank you. Uh 4.4 or
>> Great job, Dr. Mo.
>> I can call the question,
>> Mr. Exter.
>> Boy, it look sad if I said no, wouldn't
it be confusing in the minutes?
>> Mrs. Robas,
>> I
>> Miss Naha.
>> Hi,
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
Item 4.6, discussion and action on the
approval of contracts with purchasing
cooperative awarded vendors to provide
copy paper for the instructional service
centers and open open computer labs for
the fiscal year 2025 2026 in an amount
not to exceed $95,000
estimated annual aggregate amount.
>> Move to approve.
>> Second.
>> Any discussion?
All questions.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> I.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> I. Miss Naha.
>> Hi,
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Item 4.7, discussion and action on the
acceptance of the 2025 certified
appraisal role with a net taxable value
of property within the El Paso County
Community College District of 73
bill463,35,724
as established by the central central
appraisal district. Move to approve 4.7,
4.8, 4.9, and 4.10.
>> Second.
Item 4.8, discussion and action on the
adoption of the fiscal year 2025 2026
operating budget of $173,931,632.
Item 4.9, discussion and action on the
adoption of the fiscal year 2025 2026
auxiliary fund budget. Item 4.10, 10
discussion and action on the adoption of
the order and the certificate of order
setting tax rate of 0.13563
per $100 valuation of fiscal year 2025
2026.
>> Any dis uh questions on 4.7
4.8 8 4.9
>> yes
when we look at 4.9 we with the budget
and so I I referred back to page 113
which talks about that and then actually
what happened is that it refers then to
a table on 4.4 four and we have the
auxiliary budget for fiscal year. And if
I look at that, there's two columns. It
says budget 83125 and it has ending fund
balance of 5.538234.
And then it says budget beginning the
next year at 5.824. So there's a delta
of almost $300,000 gain.
Do we not have if we say end of year
budget and a start of year budget those
is does there something occur in between
there that you're not tracking how come
that we have $300,000 difference
>> that that's a very good observation uh
Mr. Oxer that is a budgeted projection
for ending fund balance and not the one
based upon actual numbers.
So it is a budgeted the budget is a
projection. So this is what we budgeted
for the end of this year as the fund
balance but in reality it's going to
come in higher because revenues came in
higher to the auxiliary fund. Therefore
we start with uh what we believe is
going to be the beginning balance which
is higher because we had higher revenues
than expected.
>> Okay. So we think we think the bottom
line is one thing but then if we sit
back and think about it the bottom line
of another one's the same thing is
different and so we don't want to
account and say I have a guess of
300,000 I'm going to include here
is that right I don't I'm just it's
still not clear I mean if it's sort of
an estimate how come you don't have a
consistent estimate between years I
understand that's fine it's good it just
seems seems to me that if you have end
of year and starting year it ought to be
the same number or you ought to qualify
your assumptions.
>> That's a good observation. Thank you.
>> Any other questions on 4.10?
>> Other questions
I Okay, Mr. Exer.
>> Hi,
>> Mrs. Robas.
>> Miss Nahara.
>> Hi,
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Mr. Hagerty. I
>> I need to read um an order accepting
um the appraisal role order accepting
certified appraisal role whereas the
board of trustees of said district
desire that the appraisal role for the
district for the 2025 tax year be
accepted and approved. Therefore, be it
ordered by the board of trust by the
board of trustees of the El Paso County
Community College District one that the
appraisal role for the district for the
2025 tax year be accepted as approved by
the 2025 appraisal review board and
certified by the chief appraisal as
follows. Net taxable value 73
bill463,35,724.
[Music]
order setting tax rate. Whereas the
board of trustees of said district has
received, accepted, and approved the
certified appraisal rules for the 2025
tax year. And whereas the district has
calculated those tax rates and made such
other calculations as required by law
and whereas the board of trustees of
said district wishes to adopt a tax
rate. Therefore, be it ordered by the by
the board of trustees of the El Paso
County Community College District one,
that the maintenance and operation tax
rate for the district for the 2025 tax
year be set and adopted in accordance
with chapter 26 of the Texas Tax Code
entitled the property tax code as
follows. Operations tax rate 0.103563
per $100 valuation. Total 0.103563
per $100 valuation.
We have a motion.
>> Right.
>> SE section five, physical facilities
discussion and action on the approval to
award a contract to Ari P and Steve E.
Franco LLC to provide architectural
services related to the law enforcement
training academy building at Mission Del
Paso campus in an amount not to exceed
$96,224.
>> Move to approve.
Second.
>> Any questions? I have a question. Is
this for the wall in the back to keep
the bullets removed to the building?
>> It is partly for that and it's a
renovation of the building. Um, Chair
Hagerty. So, it we we've operated in
this building for quite some time and it
was due for renovations and so we're
going to take care of of that in
addition to renovating.
>> Any other questions? Just out of
curiosity, if we have a law enforcement
training academy and we're providing
that,
do we have the opportunity to ask other
law enforcement agencies around here to
chip in? Because if they benefit from
this, I mean, it seems like we ought to
get the police department or the county
sheriff or maybe the constables or or
somebody to chip in a couple of bucks to
pay for their bullets going down range.
>> Do you want to take that, Dr. Smith?
>> Mr. structure. They do pay for their own
ammunition. Uh and we do have uh
agreements with them for the use of the
facilities
>> agreements. But but we're going to spend
money for that structure to stop those
bullets. You know, they ought to I mean,
they don't get to fire them and then go
away. They ought to sit there and pay
for them being stopped.
>> We we'll take that under consideration.
>> Okay.
>> They might want to help out.
>> Any other questions?
All the questions.
>> Mr. Xer.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Miss Naha.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> I.
>> Section six. Curriculum and instruction.
Item 6.1. Discussion and action on the
approval of a contract with GOBI Library
Solutions from EPCO to purchase library
materials for the EPCC libraries in an
amount not to exceed $165,960.
>> Move to approve 6.2. 2 6.3 and 6.4.
>> Second.
>> Which one?
>> 61.
>> Yes.
>> Check.
>> Item 6.2 discussion and action on the
approval of a contract with online
database and discovery service provider
EPCO for the EPCC libraries in an amount
of $9,60.
Item 6.3, discussion and action on the
approval of a grant award from the US
Department of Education TRIO Student
Support Services, SSSP, in an in an
amount of 7 $735,953.
Item 6.4, discussion and action on the
approval of a grant award from the
Department of Defense in an amount of
$359,848.
[Music]
Chair Hagerty, I'd just like to allow
Dr. Smith to recognize individuals who
worked on these. They're in total just
over a uh just short of a million and a
half dollars.
>> Uh thank you, Dr. Sada. So, the first
two items are actually expenditure items
uh to help our library database fund our
library databases for our students.
Those are things we bring annually uh to
the institution. So, u very important
that we get those items approved for our
students today. Uh the second two are
obviously part of a cornucopia of grants
that are on uh this particular board
agenda. Um I get paid extra to use that
word today. Um yeah, very excited. So,
the SSSP grant uh is something that
we've had for over 30 years now. uh
targeting uh first generation students,
low-income students, uh disabled
students, uh giving them every
opportunity and support uh for success
at the institution. Uh on all of these,
I'd first like to thank the grants
department. They're our valued partners.
They're instrumental in everything we do
there. So, Bob Elliot and his team uh
here in the audience today for the SSSP,
we've got uh Lucia Rodriguez, director
of the program, as well as Medela Pacia.
She's the manager of SSSP. So if they
want to maybe wave and stand up and be
recognized. Thank you for the work.
And they are both under uh Dr.
Mitchell's purview. So Dr. Mitchell is
also instrumental in all of this. And
then um the contract opportunity center
also longstanding
um resource here at the college. We help
local people uh businesses and other
entities get into the government
contracting business both local
contracting and federal contracting
business. Uh huge impact on the
community. Uh so Mr. Pablo Armond Doris
and uh Blaine Permis are in the audience
today. So thank them for the ongoing
work that they do.
>> Any other questions? Other question.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robas.
>> Miss Nahara.
>> Hi.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Item 6.5. Discussion and action on the
acceptance of the Texas Higher Education
Coordinating Board THCB Texas Reskilling
and Upskilling through Education True
Grant in the amount of 200 $200,000.
Move to approve 6.5 6.6 six and 6.7.
>> Second.
>> Item 6.6, discussion and action on the
acceptance of a grant from the Texas
Higher Education Coordinating Board,
THCB, in the amount of $149,976.
Item 6.7, discussion and action on the
acceptance of a grant from the Texas
Higher Education Coordinating Board,
THCB, the data to action for parenting
students at Texas Colleges and
Universities D2ATX grant program in the
amount of 118450
$118,000.
>> Again, Dr. Smith, I want to give you an
opportunity to recognize the individuals
who've worked on these. these plus the
other two are are well over 1.5 million.
>> Yeah, thank you Dr. Shada. So, uh just a
little context, the true grant um Texas
reskilling and upskilling through
education, this is our fourth uh true
grant. Uh amazing. Ever since the true
grant was uh established, uh we've
gotten that grant every year. We're now
over $1.5 million and the driving force
behind uh the various incarnation of our
true grants is Dr. Sariah Hajar who is
also in the audience, one of our deans
at our Rio Grand campus. Thank you.
Her and her team do a fabulous job. This
one is focused on um pharmacy tech and
increasing opportunities for students in
pharmacy tech. um very much needed uh
high demand occupation in our region is
nursing. Uh and so Dr. Hafi Guerrero uh
our dean of nursing over there uh
received the u nursing grant to increase
the opportunities uh and capacity for
our LVN students, our one-year nursing
students to transition into our RN
program, our two-year nursing program.
Prior to uh kind of establishing some
changes in that program, uh students had
to re-rank into the nursing program.
This now gives them an opportunity and
and resources to uh allow them to move
directly into the two-year program. Uh
we will have more nurses in the region
because of his work. Uh thank you, Dr.
Dedto.
And then finally, another shout out to
director uh Lucia Rodriguez and Dr.
Mitchell. Um the uh D2A Texas grant will
help our parenting uh students and give
them resources and assistance. Uh this
is part of our familyfriendly presence.
Uh we now have family-friendly centers
at every one of our campuses and this is
uh going in support of those. So thank
you Lieutenant Director Lucia Rodriguez.
[Applause]
Cherry, I have a question. Dr. Smith,
just just if I understand correctly, I
mean, do do I recall correctly that our
reg regular full uh nursing RN programs
and LVN programs are are fully
subscribed. That is that the attendant
we're at max load for each one of those
classes.
>> That is correct.
>> And are is there is there a waiting
list? Uh there is currently um I will
tell you that um Dean Guerrero is
establishing a night LVN program to
increase capacity.
>> Okay.
>> Um and so we are working on ways to um
make more seats available in those
programs.
>> Okay.
>> Wouldn't one of the things that having a
nighttime program still one of the
bottlenecks if you will is having the
trained faculty. I mean you can ask
extra time but you only have we're sort
of maxed out on faculty hours is that
you know
>> yeah there's a couple of limiting
factors to growing the program uh
resources obviously rooms and and labs
at the the college uh we've done great
work in advancing uh opportunities there
qualified faculty is uh a hurdle and um
available clinical sites are also kind
of a hurdle
>> okay I I just want to point out would
you go and tell us what your the uh the
general pass rate has been for those
programs over the last five years
or sort of.
>> Yeah, generally uh the pass rate for
accreditation purposes hovers around
90%. That's the the bar. Uh we've
exceeded that in the last number of
years. So we hover uh depending on the
program between 92 and 95%.
without being specific uh you know if
I'm not correct that's exceeds the uh
pass rate and the qualification rate of
any other nursing program by any other
institution here in town. Would that be
correct? I
>> I'm going to qualify that we are
absolutely one of the highest pass rate
entities in the region.
>> So Dr. Sata, you need to give them a pat
on the back besides your Yeah.
>> Dr. Now, let's start devote since we
have an extra million for
>> Okay, let's see if we can't devote that
to
>> stealing some of the uh the instructors
from some of the other programs and
getting our program, you know, and we're
doing better than they are as one of the
best. Why don't we just provide them the
opportunity to participate with the
community college at one less as opposed
to one of those other institutions that
you know is striving to catch up with
us?
>> Absolutely.
>> Any other questions? Call question.
>> Mr. Uxer.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> I
>> Miss Naha.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi.
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi. Section seven, student services.
Item 7.1, discussion and action on the
approval of lease contracts with the
Phoenix of El Paso for rental of
apartments for the Intercolgate
Athletics Department in an amount not to
exceed $116,875.
>> Move to approve.
>> Second.
Uh FYI, if we used that figure over the
last past 25 years, if we would have
built these apartments back then, we
would uh I think we have spent $2.9
million on rent.
>> But we weren't on the board back then
when you started.
>> Just FYI. Any other discussion? Call a
question.
>> Mr.
I
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Hi,
>> Miss Nahara.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> No,
>> Mrs. Moy.
>> I
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> No.
>> Item 7.2, discussion and action on the
approval of continuing education CE
tuition rates for new courses.
>> Um, motion
>> move to approve 7.2 2 7.3
>> second
>> item 7.3 discussion and action on the
approval of continuing education CE
tuition rates for revised courses
>> any discussion call the question
>> Mr. Xer
>> I
>> Mrs. Robless
>> Miss Naha
>> I
>> Dr. Graham
>> hi
>> Mrs. Moy
>> Hi
>> Mr. Mendes
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> Hi.
>> Section 8, comm community community
services. There is none. Would the board
like to recess into executive session?
>> Yes. Push.
>> Item 1.3 executive and close session.
The board of trustees may conduct an
executive or close session pursuant to
chapter 551 of the Texas government code
for one or more of the following
reasons. One, consultation with its
attorney to seek or receive legal advice
or consultation regarding pending or
contemplated litigation or for any
purpose authorized by law. Two,
discussion about the value or transfer
of real property. Three, discussion
about a prospective gift or donation.
Four, consideration of specific
personnel matters. Five, discussion
about security personnel or devices. Or
six, discussion of certain economic
development matters. The board may also
announce that it will go into executive
session on any item listed on this
agenda if the subject matters permitted
for a close session by provisions of
chapter 551 of the Texas Government
Code. Any vote regarding these items
shall be taken in open session. Item
1.3.1, discussion with legal council
regarding a lawsuit filed Catalina
Valtier Pinion versus El Paso County
Community College District, cause number
2024 DCV 2798 in the 168 Judicial
District Court of El Paso County, Texas,
pursuant to section 551.071
of the Texas Government Code. 1.3.2 to
discussion with legal counsel regarding
proposed contract non-renewal of an
employee in the division of instruction
and workforce education pursuant to
section 551.074
of the Texas government code. Item 1.3.3
discussion with legal council regarding
proposed contract non-renewal of an
employee in the division of instruction
and workforce education pursuant to
section 551.074
of the Texas government code. Item 1.3.4
Four. Discussion with legal counsel
regarding proposed contract non-renewal
of an employee in the division of
instruction and workforce education
pursu pursuant to section 551.074
of the Texas Government Code. Item 1.3.5
discussion with legal counsel regarding
Texas Senate Bill 2237
89th Legislative Regular Session 2025.
Item 1.3.6 Six discussion with legal
counsel regarding Texas Senate Bill 2615
89th legislative regular session 2025.
Item 1.3.7
discussion with legal counsel regarding
possible amendment to employment
agreement of college president pursuant
to section 551.074
of the Texas government code. The time
is now 6:12 and the board is in
executive session.
Okay, we're back out of executive
session. Belle, we need to go through
some of these. Uh
1.9.1.
Can you read that one?
>> Item 1.9.1, discussion and take possible
action regarding a lawsuit styled
Catalina Valtier Pinon versus El Paso
County Community College District. Cause
number 2024 DCV 27 2798 in the 168th
Judicial Court District Court of El Paso
County, Texas.
>> No action.
1.9.2
>> discussion and take possible action
regarding proposed contract non-renewal
of an of an employee in the division of
instruction and workforce education.
>> No action.
>> No action. Okay. 1.9.3
>> discussion and take possible action
regarding proposed contract non-renewal
of an employee in the division of
instruction and workforce education.
>> I move to approve the recommendation of
the non-renewal contract of Sylvia
Gonzalez effective August 31st, 2025.
>> Second.
>> Any discussion? All questions.
>> Mr. Exter.
>> Mrs. Robas. Hi.
>> Miss Maher. Hi.
>> Dr. Graham. I
>> Mrs. Moy. I
>> Mr. Mendes. Hi.
>> Mr. Hagerty. I
>> item 1.9.4
discussion and take possible action
regarding proposed contract non-renewal
of an employee in the division of
instruction and workforce education.
>> I move to approve the recommendation of
the non-renewal contract of oras Dr.
Orasio Gonzalez effective August 31st
2025.
>> Second
discussion call the question bill.
>> Mr. Exter.
>> Mrs. Robless.
>> Hi.
>> Miss Naha.
>> Dr. Graham.
>> Hi.
>> Mrs. Moy. I,
>> Mr. Mendes.
>> Hi,
>> Mr. Hagerty.
>> I
>> item 1.9.5, discussion and take possible
action regarding Texas Senate Bill 2237
89th Legislative Regular Session 2025.
>> No action
1.9.6. We've already discussed it. No,
no, we didn't. That was Mr. Smith.
>> Read 1.9.6.
>> Yes, sir. Discussion and take possible
action regarding Texas Senate Bill 2615
89th Legislative Regular Session 2025.
No action.
>> Item 1.9.10 discussion and take possible
action to approve a amendment to
employment agreement of college
president and any other related matters.
>> No action.
Okay. And uh I'm just going to remind
everyone our next board meeting is going
to be September the
>> 24th
>> 24th 24th at 4:30 here right here in uh
boardroom.
>> September 24th.
Yeah, they want some.
>> Thank you. Thank you, judge. Thank you.